1) Write a program to make a class named as Circle. Create two functions in this
   class getRadius() , getArea().Display area of circle.

2) Write a program to calculate area of rectangle where Rectangle is a class 
   and getParameters() is a function which reads two parameter length and breadth
   from user and other function is showArea() which shows area of rectangle.


3) Pass two numbers in a member function, if first number is smaller than second 
   number, then print all numbers between first number and second number in 
   increasing order.
   if first number is greater than second number. Print second number to first 
   number in decreasing order.

4) Take a number from user. If the number is Even , Print all even number below 
   that number. If number is odd , Print all odd numbers below that.


5) Make a function getName() which gets the name of a student from user.one more
   function as updateName() which changes the name which is previously set by
   user.

6) Write a program to enter details of 3 students like rollno,name and 
   marks of 5 subjects in a function getDetails() and make a function
   getPercentage() which returns percentage of a student and print the
   student details in showDetails() ,in the following form:-
   
   R.N.    Name     Percentage
   101     Ajay     90%   

   Also print the topper name.
   

7) Make a function where user enters his date of birth in format (dd/mm/yyyy)
   and print the age in years.

8) Create two student object and compare their ages and find who is elder.

9) Enter Employee details in a function like name and city. If City of any employee
   is Mumbai / Bangalore / Delhi then print a message "You live in Metro city"
   otherwise give a message "You are from a non Metro city".

10) Make a function Calculate() which is doing addition, multiplication, division
    and subtraction. where addition is performed on two integers. Subtraction is 
    performed on two floating point numbers. Division is performed on two double
    values and Multiplication is performed on three values of type float.


11) Write a program to make a function which takes two arguments, first argument
    is name of a person , second argument is city of person. Make city as a 
    default argument . Value of default argument is "Delhi". Print name and
    city both.

1) Make a class named as Student where take member variables as student id,
   student name,books issued , make a default constructor which assigns the number
   of books to all students at the time of admission.Make a function named as 
   requestBook() which adds the no of books in the previous one. If for any 
   student the number of issued book is more than 5 then bokks can not be issued 
   to that student.

2) Write a program to overload = operator and the operator function should 
   double value and print it.

3) x = 3 + 4 i
   y = 4 + 8 i
   
   z = x + y = 7+ 12i






Type of Inheritances 

1) Single Inheritance   -- When one class inherits a single class


2) Multilevel   --  When one class inherits a class that is again inherited from other class


3) Multiple   -- When one class is inherited from more than one classes


4) Hierarchical -- When one class inherits more than one classes


5) Hybrid  -- It is the combination of multiple and multilevel inheritance



1) Make a Class as Student and other class is Activities,Third Class is StudentData which will show the rollno,stream,
   student name, student age, hobby.

2) Create a class Bonus and one class is Employee. In class Bonus ,Initialize a default bonus of 1000/- .
   In Employee Class take input as a Employee name, Job duration, and age of employee and salary. 
   If the job duration is more than 5 years . Give that employee a bonus of 3000/- in his total salary 
   and print all the details.If job duration is less than 5 years , Give bonus of 1000/- to his salary 
   and print it. 

3) Create a class Bank. Create its subclasses as SBI, IDBI, ICICI . In Bank class set the default 
   rate of interest at 4 percent. Class SBI returns the same rate of interest as in Bank Class.
   IDBI returns the rate of interest at 5 percent and ICICI returns the rate of interest at 6 percent.
   Display all the details as Bank Name and its Rate of interest. 


1) Make a class sports.
   create subclasses as Cricket, Football, Tennis
   In sports class make a function as noOfPlayers() and override this function in all subclasses.
   Make a function showPlayersCount() in all subclasses and print the no of players in this function.

2) Create a class Bike . Subclasses are pulsor, Splender, Shine
   Create a pure virtual function as getBikeDetails() which gets the information about bike like
   Bike name, Bike Color, Bike Average, BikeMaxSpeed, Bike Price. 
   Make a function as ShowBikeDetails() which shows all the details about Bike.

Write a program to take the no of employees in getDetails() and print their details in a 
function showEmp(), Make a class Employee.

Output


Enter number of employee  .. 4

Enter the details of employee 1 :
     Emp id
     name
     salary
 
Enter the details of employee 2 :
     Emp id
     name
     salary

Enter the details of employee 3 :
     Emp id
     name
     salary

Enter the details of employee 4 :
     Emp id
     name
     salary

details of employee 1 :
     Emp id
     name
     salary

details of employee 2 :
     Emp id
     name
     salary



  Difference between -> (referential operator) and . (Membership operator) : 

  -> is used to call any member function of the class through the pointer object
  
  . is used to call any member function of the class throught the class object



   Compile Time Polymorphism - 

   1) Static binding  -- pointer concept , base class pointer 
                         type of pointer 

   


   2) Dynamic binding --  pointer concept , base class pointer , virtual 
                         type of address being assigned to the base pointer


   Virtual function -- we can make any base class function as virtual function at the time of definition 
                       on writing the keyword as virtual. virtual function is made in the base class to
                       achieve the concept of run time polymorphism.


  Abatraction - Process of hiding the unnessesary details.


  Abstract Class - which is having a pure virtual function.
                   we can not create the object of abstract class.
                   We can inherit the abstract class
		   We can create the pointer of abstract class

  Pure virtual function - function which is incomplete means it does not have any body
                          it is assigned a value zero
                          it is defined using virtual keyword

                          Ex : -  Syntax of pure virtual function

                                virtual void show( )=0;


1) Create a class named as Employee.
   Create function named as getDetails. First name, Last name, age, City , contact
   Create one function as getFullName() which returns the concatenated name / full name.
   Create a function which returns the length of name.
   Create a function which checks if the first name is not empty. If it is empty , print a message
   "Please enter your first name".
   
2) Make a class Email, Take user name and password in a function getLoginData(). 
   create a function checkUserDetails() , In this function check if email id is "abc@gmail.com" and 
   password is "abcd1234" then print a message "Welcome abc@gmail.com" 
   otherwise print "Invalid User Id / Password".


3) Write a program to enter details of 3 students like rollno, name and age from keyboard and save the
   details in a file named as student.txt.

4) Write a program to create two file as Even.txt and odd.txt .
   In Even.txt , Even numbers between 1 and 100 should be printed.
   In Odd.txt , Odd numbers between 1 and 100 should be printed.

5) Write a program to print alphabets and its equivalet ASCII code to
   a file named as Alpha.txt

Stack ---  STL Class

    1) push()
    2) pop()
    3) empty()
    4) top()
    5) size()


Vector  --- STL Class

    1) push_back()
    2) pop_back()
    3) insert()
    4) at()
    5) begin()
    6) end()
    7) size()
    
Standard Template Library ( STL )    provided by standard C++

       Library of template classes and functions

       array - not a class
 
       vector
       stack
       list  -  linkedlist
       queue 

  Data Structure - type of data storage


  array   - collection of values of similar type 

  structure  - struct - store variety of data



   underflow   -- if any data structure has no elements and we want to remove elements
   overflow    -- if we want to add element on data structure and that structure is full


  1) Stack class
  2) Vector class in STL
                  Iterator - pointer which points to the elements in a vector.
   		  create array dynamically , we use vector class
   














   











































































 
