

a)
   1) create two files.
   2) create first file using vi command and write only even nos in it.
   3) create second file using gedit command and write only odd nos in it.
   4) join two files together and save the joined content in one file and show the content of the file.



b)
   1) create a file student.txt where every record should be stored in following manner:(5 records)
      Rollno Name Marks
                             10 Amit 80
                             11 Amit 90
   
   2) create three files as rollno.txt, name.txt, marks.txt.
   3) Read file student.txt and only rollnos should be copied in rollno.txt.
      Read file student.txt and only name should be copied in name.txt.
      Read file student.txt and only marks should be copied in marks.txt.


1) Make one directory in /home/Desktop named as 'Main' . Make two more directories in Main, named as
   A and B. Create a file file1.txt in A and file2.txt in B. Write some content in file1.txt and file2.txt
   file1.txt shoul be copied in B folder and file2.txt should be copied in A folder.


2) Make a file items.doc where write the name of grocery items in any order and sort all the items and 
   write the sorted items in a file named as sortedItems.txt


3) Create a file Myfile.txt on the Desktop and delete read permission from group and others but not from
   user.

4) Rename the file Myfile.txt to change.txt


5) Create a file data.txt Write some contents in it. Search any specific word in the file.

6) Make a directory on the Desktop . In this directory create 2 text files and two doc files.
   find all files which are text file.

7) Count the no of lines in which Hello world occurs.

8) show last 5 lines of a file.

1. Create a function which takes a parameter as a number and calculates the factorial of that number.
2. Create a function which checks any number that is even or odd.
3. Create a function that prints the name and age of 5 students using array.
4. Create a file where write the code to calculate the cube of a number and execute this file using bc
5. Write a program to print the table of a given number where table should be printed using a function.
6. Write a program to find the largest of three numbers in a function where 3 numbers are passed to the 
   function
7. Write a program to print the following series .  0 1 1 2 3 5 8 13 (fibbonnacii)


   -rwxrwxrwx    User   -----    r w x
                 Group  -----    r w x
                 Others -----    r w x

    rw-  rw- r--

    110  110 100
    6    6   4 

8. Change the permission of the file for a group only as r,w and x.
      

9. Remove all permissions from the file for the user.

Q.1 Write a shell script program to take two names from user and print full name.
Q.2 Write a shell script program to take two numbers from user and print its 
    addition , multiplication, division and subtraction


1)  if statement

    if(condition)
    then
        statement
    fi


2)  if - else statement

    if statement

    if(condition)
    then
        statement
    else
        statement    

    fi



Q.3 Write a program to enter percentage of a student, if percentage is in range 

         percentage>60 and percentage<=70   then print 'C Grade'
       

Q.4 Display output for following:

    Percentage Range            Output
    
    60 to 70               D
    71 to 80               C
    81 to 90               B
    91 to 100              A
                       
    else
                           Fail

Q.5 Make a program to check if any entered number is even or odd

Q.6 Find the largest of three nos entered by user

Q.7 Make an array of three nos and get a no from user , if no is in array,
    display search successful

Q.8 Print all even numbers of an array

Q.1 10+20=30
    30+40=70
    
    40+60=100

Q.2 Calculate the area of rectangle where l and b should be passed as command line arguments

Q.3 Take any one number as a command line argument and print its square, cube and check if that no is 
    Even or odd.

Q.4 Read a string from user and print its length.
   
    Enter a string : abcd
    String lenth is:  4

Q.5 Read first name and Last name from user ,print fullname
    assign fullname in a variable, Extract the last name from
    the variable.
    
    Enter first name :abc
    Enter last name :def
    full name :abc def
    
    last name should be printed  : def

Q.6 take radius of circle as a command line argument and print area






















  
         

















